Frequently Asked Questions.

Q: I got an error message saying something like make: cc1plus file not
found.  What's wrong?

A: GCC isn't installed correctly on your system.  Try opening up the
makefile and changing the line that says 'CC = gcc' to 'CC = g++'.  If
that doesn't work, you'll need to hunt down your installation disk and
install the devel-gcc or devel-g++ RPM.

Q: I get wierd errors when I run make, what should I do?

A: Try using 'gmake' if it exsists.  You may have a wierd version of make
running.

Q: Where is the executable?

A: C Alice is made to run on many systems, because of this there is no
executable, you have to 'make' one yourself.  Go into the source directory
and type 'make', pick what interface you want out of the list, and then
type make (interface).  Hopefully all will go well.

Q: I changed my AIML files, and then reloaded alice.  Yet she doesn't seem
to know the changes I made.  How do I make her remember?

A: Go into your data directory, and delete patterns.txt and templates.txt.

Q: How do I change my bots "Personality"?

A: Open up the file data/defvars.txt and make changes.  The first line
holds THAT for the first response.  Each line after that is in the form:

1 botname=Alice
or
0 it=itself

the 1/0 means wiether it's protected or not.  In general bot variables
should be protected. The botname=Alice sets the variable botname=Alice.

Q: How do I set up CGI alice on my server?

A: (quick and dirty version)
 1. Open the file called skeleton.txt and edit the place where it says
    http://YouNeedToChangeThis to whatever website you intend on running
    it from.
 2. Type 'make cgi'
 3. Type 'make install DIST=/Your_CGI_Directory'
 4. Set the permissions so that the cgi program can write to data and log.
 5. Hit Cgi alice with a web browser, the first time through she'll
display some junk to her screen.  This should go away the second time.
 6. Hopefully all went well, enjoy CGI-alice :)

Q: How do I use the logs generated by program C to generate new AIML in
with program B's GUI?

A: (provided mostly by Dr. Richard Wallace)

HINT - if using CGI alice, you may want to put all the log files into one
large text.  You can do this by typing in log/

cat *.log > dialog.txt


There are options in globals.txt in program B of significance
here:

   AnalysisFile=dialog.txt
   RobotLineStarts=Robot:
   ClientLineContains=client:

The way it works is: "Classify" reads the lines from "AnalysisFile", by
default "dialog.txt".  Then it determines whether the line is a robot line
or a client or neither. Robot lines always start with "RobotLineStarts",
like:

Robot: Hi There

Client lines might be identified differently, for example: 

xyz.company.com client: HELLO

So we use "ClientLineContains" to identify the "client:"  marking the
beginning of the actual client comment. 

Q: I can't get alice to compile on computer XYZ?

A: Gather all information you can about the computer your trying to
compile it on.  Get any screen dumps, errors, or warnings you
can.  And lastly, send it all to me at taylor@cs.mwsu.edu I'll do my best
to get it working. 

Q: I think I found a bug, what do I do?

A: Again, get any information you can about what type of computer your on.
Also get any screen dumps, error messages or warnings you can.  And give
me an idea as to what you were doing when the bug happened.  Try to find
out if the bug happens if say, you enter "your buggy" into alice.  Or if
it just seems random.  Lastly, send all the information to me at
taylor@cs.mwsu.edu

